Hey guys and welcome back so we;re going to
look at an alternative music manager architecture
now. We're going to customise our Win and
Lose scenes and then test it and make sure
it all works fine. So here's that diagram
that we saw before, slightly re-arranged,
I've taken away the arrows from Win and Lose
back to start: Why? Because I want to just
show you how I'm going to prefix my level
numbers 00 for Splash, we're never going to
go back there, 01a for Start, b for options
they're all kind of at the same level if you
like and then 02 is for all the levels and
then the 03 prefix is for the lose screen
and the win screen. Just for fun, just to
give you another way of naming levels if you
want to.
So, what we need to do is create a whole new
music manager architecture. Let's ditch this
singleton idea for now and give you another
alternative. So on the splash screen, what
I want to do then is make a music manager,
the music manager that is going to persist
through. So let's do it from scratch. Let's
quickly make ourselves a music manager like
that, game object, reset its transform, I'm
going to put it at the top, music manager
first. I'm going to make myself a new script,
called music manager and tidy it up as usual
and go edit it.
OK, so this one's going to be altogether more
simple. What we're going to do is we're going
to pass into it an array of level numbers
and changes so we're going to have a public
AudioClip array and I'm going to call it levelMusicChangeArray
now, what does that mean? Well, let's expose
it and have a look. Here's the music manager,
and there we have an array now. If we go to
the build order, or the build settings, we
currently have two levels. Splash and Start.
So what we would do here is if we wanted a
different sound on start we would simply have
an array of size two, element zero we're always
going to leave empty because we already have
a load sound on this level and then what we
would do is drag an audio clip into element
one to say that when we get to level index
one we want to change the sound, the music.
Level index one on the right hand side, nothing
to do with how I'm naming the levels, so when
I get to index one as I've indicated there.
OK, so let me go and get myself some music
that would be suitable so let's go to glitchthegame
and find something that would be useful for
the menus... downloads, music and I can't
remember which one I chose to use, give me
a moment let me just take a look. Basically
have a look through that list, go with something
that you like the sound of which is most important
really. Meanwhile I'm going to have a quick
look and I think I went for Spooky Groddle
when I considered what I was going to do,
this one here.Yeah, sounds like a forest,
it has a nice fade-in, I like it. So lets
just download that, you have to right-click,
"Save Link As..."
Spooky Groddle, yeah I really like that. Awesome
so 8 megabytes, now you see it's 8 megabytes
that's exactly why our splash screen is so
helpful we don't want an eight megabyte sound
loading while Unity splash screen loads, do
you get what I mean? So, import new asset.
Downloads, Spooky Groddle, import and it's
going to take a minute. Now as a side note
here as we're talking about tbuilding to mobile
it's good that it's an .mp3 file, .ogg files
work fine on Android but they do not work
on iOSso in future if you're going to start
deploying to mobile start thinking about converting
any .ogg files you have into .mp3. Don't worry,
the system will tell you about that but just
while we sit here and watch this import an
asset I thought that I may as well tell you.
As soon as it comes in we're going to want
to make it not a 3D sound because this is
a 2D game. 3D sounds just end up being quiet
and confusing because it's to do with the
distance from the camera. So not a 3D sound,
re-apply and we get another wonderful processing
happening; your machine may be a lot faster
or a lot slower than this, probably slower.
This is I don't know what this machine is
I think it's a 3ish gigahertz intel i7 macBook
pro retina thingy, a pretty cool machine,
I'm pretty happy with it. What else to say
while a progress bar goes flying off?
Alright, so once that's done what we're going
to do is we're going to load this Spooky Groddle
sound into element one of that music change
array and then we're going to write some code
that says just play the music that accords
to the level in the index it's really quite
simple and I think it's quite an elegant solution.
It does have some limitations but it's fine.
Music manager when we get to level index one
I want to play that.
Cool! So how do we make the code do that?
In fact here's a challenge for you, see if
you can stop the video now and actually write
the code inside the music manager that plays
the right music based on the level. When the
level index equals the musicChangeArray index
it plays the music. Go see if you can do it
yourself, if you can't, just unpause and I'll
show you.
OK, cool, so what I'm going to do at the beginning
of this is I'm going to go void Awake and
I'm going to on awake because we've had this
problem before I'm going to say don't destroy
on load game object. Now to be clear, that's
going to instruct this music manager to persist.
In fact, let's immediately rename it: Persistent
- look, I'm going to look that up, because
if I spell that wrong I will never hear the
end of it in the discussions persist-ent,
I'm sure that's right, OK guys so persistent
music we're going to call it.
OK, persistent music. We're coding it right
in there. OK so it's not going to destroy
this persistent music object on load. Great.
And that's being set at awake, why don't we
just log that out so we know exactly what's
going on. Debug.Log, what shall I say? Don't
destroy on load! and then I may as well just
put use name, now name will return the name
of the game object. Let's just watch that
working, it's real simple. Run, awake gets
called, console says "don't destroy on load
persistent music." and we go into here. Awesome.
There's a start for us. Now, what to do next,
so, take a look at this persistent music object.
You'll notice that it doesn't have an audiosource
on it yet so let's add an AudioSource, there
it is, there's no clip; that's OK because
we're going to program the clip programmatically
take off Play on Awake for that, OK, that's
absolutely fine. Now, we need in the code
of course to have a private AudioSource that
we can get access to so lets just do that
so private AudioSource, which is that thing
that actually plays the music it's the source
of the sound and why don't I just call it
audioSource, just for simplicity, no confusion
there then. So let's find that thing, how
do we find that AudioSource well, it's relatively
simple. AudioSource equals GetComponent. Why
GetComponent? Because if we look over here,
we are a script here looking for another component
of the same gameObject persistent music so
its GetComponent we want of type AudioSource
and its a method; so we need some of them
wiggly things.
OK cool so we've got the AudioSource now,
that's it actually, we just need to find the
AudioSource. Now it's On Level Was Loaded
that we want to do something. Not every single
update, so let's not bother with every single
update let's go void OnLevelWasLoaded. Now
lt's look that up in the docs. MonoBehavious
OnLevelWasLoaded and it passes in a level.
So this is a message that gets called when
the level is loaded and gets passed to all
methods passing in something called level
so lets just take int level, take the signature
straight off there; int:level.
OK so when the level's loaded we want to do
something. Cool. Alright, well let's firstly
try and grab the right element out of the
arrays, why don't we debug.Log to make sure
that we're grabbing the right thing from that
list. Playing clip, or something like that,
and then + levelMusicChangeArray I'm just
going to copy it from there and then the level
number so that's accessing the level - level,
say 0 for the splash screen, 1 for the start
screen so we're taking that element off the
level music change array. Hopefully that makes
sense. Let's try it, let's make sure it works.
Play, and then when the scene loads boom.
Playing clip Spooky Groddle. Awesome, so it's
found the Spooky Groddle clip in this array
and it's ready to play it. Let's go back to
the code and make that actually happen, we're
nearly there. So let's say if levelMusicChangeArray[level]
so we've used levelMusicChangeArray[level]
twice, I don't like that let's give something
more descriptive. What is it firstly? What
type is levelMusicChangeArray brackets level?
Well it's an AudioClip isn't it? If you're
not sure go to Unity, look at the here you
go playing clip here UnityEngine.AudioClip
so it's an AudioClip, what are we going to
call it? Just call it thisLevelMusic, that's
quite descriptive. That equals that yeah?
Clear. So AudioClip equals... there you go
you see what I've done there? I've made it
clear what the hell this levelMusicChangeArray
brackets level is that wasn't clear before.
Let's just check it works with that change,
it will, but let's just check it. It will
if I get it right what am I doing wrong here?
Full marks if you can see what I'm doing wrong
before I do.
OK, just a square bracket that had gone funny.
OK so we wait for the level to load and we
get exactly the same message good. Now we
can just plough ahead really quickly. If thisLevelMusic
so if something is returned, if there is some
music right so if you're not sure what that's
going to mean later if there's some music
attached, yeah? What do we mean by attached?
We mean look in the persistent music, does
it have anything in the element? So for instance
if I made that four, what would happen if
these guys were empty? Well, let's find out,
let's set no music in the other elements,
this would allow for up to four different
scenes.
OK so if we have something then what are we
going to do? Well we set the music clip. So,
what are we calling the music well we're calling
audiosource.Clip equals this level music aha,
the variable name comes up again. Music.Loop.
Oops, not music.Loop. audiosource.Loop. I'm
just going to copy audioSource as I'm using
it lots here... dot loop euqals true as we
want it to loop here and music... no... audiosource
dot play, capital P, it's a method. OK? So,
it just loads the music for this level, loops
it and plays it. Let's try it, and see what
happens. You get your intro sound effect,
now the music starts. Awesome. Sounds really
good. Later we'll get a fade in here, a visual
fade in, but that's really good that's working.
Fantastic fine.
What I want you to do as a challenge then
is as follows. I want you to go ahead and
set up the rest of your menu system and customise
your scenes, your start, your win scene and
your lose scene; add a new options scene add
a button on your start scene that goes back
to options and then we want two buttons on
options, back and defaults. We're not going
to have anything you can change in options
just yet, and then make level one with win
and lose buttons on it, so we can simulate
the win and lose conditions and test the navigation
works properly.
So basically we want to be able to go from
the splash screen to the start to the options
and back, or click default and nothing will
happen at the moment and then we want to from
the start scene be able to say play the game,
or start and then when we start the game we
will have a win button which will take us
to the win scene and then that will give the
options of then quitting and playing again
and a lose button which will take you to the
play again or quit again. Welcome back so
this video is about long enough, I'll be showing
you the solution to that challenge in the
next video. Congratulations if you've already
done it and I'll see you soon.